Update overview.md (#1687)
FluxML/Flux.jl: docs/src/models/overview.md

# Flux Overview

Flux is a pure Julia ML stack that allows you to build predictive models from data. Flux is fully written in Julia so you can easily replace any layer of Flux with your own code to improve your understanding or satisfy special requirements.

A typical Flux program consists of four steps:

1. **Set up data** for training and test 

> 2. **Build a model** with configurable parameters to make predictions

Author: To me, the loss function is part of Step 3, the learning. I also think that these four headings should be short with a minimum of details.

> 3. **Learn the model parameters** on training data by iteratively updating the parameters to improve predictions

Author: I also didn't like the repetion, but it my previous change was reverted by another reviewer. I have now implemented the second option since this first overview is supposed to be not too detailed.

> 3. **Learn the model parameters** on training data by iteratively updating the parameters to improve predictions

Author: I took your text.

- Provide training and test data
- Build a model with configurable *parameters* to make predictions
- Iteratively train the model on training data by tweaking the parameters to improve predictions
- Verify your model on test data

Under the hood, Flux uses a technique called automatic differentiation to take gradients that help improve predictions. Flux is also fully written in Julia so you can easily replace any layer of Flux with your own code to improve your understanding or satisfy special requirements.

Here's how you'd use Flux to build and train the most basic of models, step by step.

> This example will predict the output of the simple function `4x + 2`. First, import `Flux` and define the function we want to learn from training data:

Reviewer: I don't think we should say "training data" here because it's still just a function at this stage (we don't create any training data in this code block).

```suggestion
This example will predict the output of the simple function `4x + 2`. First, import `Flux` and define the function we want to learn:
```

```julia
julia> using Flux

> julia> actual(x) = 4x  + 2

Reviewer 2: Looks like a superfluous space was added here?

Author: Fixed.

Use the `actual` function to build sets of data for training and verification:

```julia

> julia> x_train, x_test = [0 1 2 3 4 5], [6 7 8 9 10]

Reviewer 2: Is this change necessary if the output line below already shows the expanded values?

Author: The hcat() construction was unnecessary, I think. Just takes the focus away from the essential for a person that is relatively new to Julia.

Reviewer 2: In that case, I think this line should have a semicolon so that the exact same thing isn't printed again below.

Reviewer: Let's do the semicolon. I agree the `hcat` is unnecessary.

Author: I agree with the semicolon. I am new to doing a PR on Docs with this many changes. Can I add the semicolon here here on the web interface on Github and commit, if so how?

julia> model.weight
1×1 Matrix{Float32}:

>  -0.067352235

Reviewer 2: There are a couple lines like this where the random outputs have changed. Since these aren't doctests, I don't see a reason for changing them (and thus making a noisier diff)

Author: The numbers in the original version do not seem to be consistent with each other. I think this is because Dense(1,1) is called twice as a result of the change from model() to predict(). Anyway, my numbers comes from a consistent run.

Reviewer 2: My concern is that this will make blames and anything else that uses the diff much harder/less reliable. Users already understand that randomness is involved, and adding maintenance burden for something purely cosmetic is a net negative in my books.

Reviewer: I think the only inconsistency is that `model` doesn't have the same values as `predict` (which is to be expected). All references to `predict`'s parameters seem consistent to me. If we are going with [this change](https://github.com/FluxML/Flux.jl/pull/1687#discussion_r681902194) then `model` won't exist, and most of these random number changes can be reverted.

Author: I believe that the predictions later are done with the parameters initialized by model, not by predict. Anyway, let me change so that we only use model (and make a note that predictions are generated by calling model on data, as mentioned in another comment.) and then revert to the first set of parameters from model.

julia> model.bias
1-element Vector{Float32}:
 0.0
```

> Under the hood, a `Dense` layer is a struct with fields `weight` and `bias`. `weight` is a matrix of model weights and `bias` represents a bias vector. By default, these model parameters are initialized randomly.

Reviewer: The goal in the original writing of this tutorial was specifically to avoid "models" and to treat the model like a function that makes predictions. Though I agree that introducing `model` above then `predict` below is confusing. How about something like this:

````
Now, let's build a model to make predictions with `1` input and `1` output. In Flux, *models are conceptually predictive functions*:

```julia
julia> predict = Dense(1, 1)
Dense(1, 1)

julia> model.weight
1×1 Matrix{Float32}:
 -0.067352235

julia> model.bias
1-element Vector{Float32}:
 0.0
```

Under the hood, a `Dense` layer is a struct with fields `weight` and `bias`. `weight` is a matrix of model weights and `bias` represents a bias vector. By default, these model parameters are initialized randomly.

`Dense(1, 1)` implements the function `σ(Wx+b)` where `W` and `b` are the weights and biases. `σ` is an activation function that applies a (possibly nonlinear) transformation. Our model has one weight and one bias, but typical models will have many more. Think of weights and biases as knobs and levers Flux can use to tune predictions.
````

And we'd change `model` back to `predict` below.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should just add a sentence to that effect? Models are callable functions, all you need to do to get predictions is call the model on inputs, etc.

Reviewer: Maybe "In Flux, *models are conceptually predictive functions*" ➡️ "In Flux, *models are conceptually predictive functions* (i.e. we call our model to make predictions):"

Author: I like the comment about mentioning how a model is called to make predictions. That would be good to add. But I don't agree with using predict instead of model. See for example how keras in R and Python both uses model:

https://tensorflow.rstudio.com/guide/keras/
https://keras.io/examples/vision/image_classification_from_scratch/

> A `Dense` layer is a struct with fields `weight` and `bias`. `weight` is a matrix of model weights and `bias` represents a bias vector. These model parameters are initialized randomly here, and will later be learned from data by optimization. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the hood, a `Dense` layer is a struct with fields `weight` and `bias`. `weight` is a matrix of model weights and `bias` represents a bias vector. By default, these model parameters are initialized randomly.
```
"under the hood" is still useful because it's totally possible to implement a dense linear layer without a struct like this. It also gives a nod to the actual implementation in Flux (i.e. Flux is not magic).

Author: I prefer more direct writing and 'under the hood' as the phrase has already been used in the text and does not add much here.

> `Dense(1, 1)` also implements the function `σ(Wx+b)` where `W` and `b` are the weights and biases. `σ` is an activation function that makes the mapping from inputs to output nonlinear. Our model has one weight and one bias, but typical models will have many more. Think of weights and biases as knobs and levers Flux can use to tune predictions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Dense(1, 1)` implements the function `σ(Wx+b)` where `W` and `b` are the weights and biases. `σ` is an activation function that applies a (possibly nonlinear) transformation. Our model has one weight and one bias, but typical models will have many more. Think of weights and biases as knobs and levers Flux can use to tune predictions.
```
`σ`  is not necessarily nonlinear (and if not for compat reasons it might behoove us to rename it).

> This model will already make predictions, though not accurate ones since we have not trained the model yet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model will already make predictions, though not accurate ones, since we have not trained the model yet:
```

```julia
julia> model(x_train)
1×6 Matrix{Float32}:

>  0.0  -0.0673522  -0.134704  -0.202057  -0.269409  -0.336761

Reviewer 2: See comment above about changing random values.

Author: See my previous reply. I would like to keep my numbers.

```

## Learn Model Parameters by Optimisation

In order to make better predictions, you'll need to provide a *loss function* to tell Flux how to objectively *evaluate* the quality of a prediction. Loss functions compute the average distance between actual values and predictions. 

```julia
julia> loss(x, y) = Flux.Losses.mse(model(x), y)
loss (generic function with 1 method)

julia> loss(x_train, y_train)
196.32093811035156
```

More accurate predictions will yield a lower loss. This loss function is called [mean squared error](https://www.statisticshowto.com/probability-and-statistics/statistics-definitions/mean-squared-error/). You can write your own loss functions or rely on those already provided by Flux. Flux works by iteratively reducing the loss through *training*.

> The Flux [`train!`](@ref) function uses *a loss function* and *training data* to improve the *parameters* of your model based on an [`optimiser`](../training/optimisers.md). We use the gradient `Descent` optimiser:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Flux [`train!`](@ref) function uses *a loss function* and *training data* to improve the *parameters* of your model based on an [`optimiser`](../training/optimisers.md). Here, we use basic gradient descent:
```

 0.0
```

> Under the hood, a `Dense` layer is a struct with fields `weight` and `bias`. The field `weight` holds a matrix of model weights and `bias` represents a bias vector. By default, these model parameters are initialized randomly, and will later be learned from data by optimization. 

Author: I added a less detailed version:

Notice that `x_train` is a 1×6 Matrix, not a vector, since it represents a batch of six different data points, rather than a single six-dimensional input.

> `Dense(1, 1)` also implements the function `σ(Wx+b)` where `W` and `b` are the weights and biases. `σ` is an activation function that applies a (possibly nonlinear) transformation. Our model has one weight and one bias, but typical models will have many more. Think of weights and biases as knobs and levers Flux can use to tune predictions.

Reviewer 3: There's some confusion here whether "one weight" means one scalar or one matrix. Both are true, of course, and both numbers would be larger. 
```suggestion
`Dense(1, 1)` also implements the function `σ(Wx+b)` on input `x`, where `W` and `b` are the weights and biases, and `σ` is an activation function that applies a (possibly nonlinear) transformation. In out model, `model.weight` is a 1×1 Matrix, just one number, and one `model.bias` a 1-element Vector. Typical models will have larger arrays, and more of them. Think of weights and biases as knobs and levers Flux can use to tune predictions.
```

Author: I implemented a version of this suggestion.

Models are conceptually predictive functions in Flux, i.e. we can call our `model` function on input data to make predictions. We can try out this already now, but the predictions will not be accurate since we have not trained the model yet:

```julia
julia> model(x_train)
1×6 Matrix{Float32}:

>  0.0  -1.4925  -2.98501  -4.47751  -5.97001  -7.46252

Author: I added a less detailed version:

Notice that x_train is a 1×6 Matrix, not a vector, since it represents a batch of six different data points, rather than a single six-dimensional input.

More accurate predictions will yield a lower loss. This loss function is called [mean squared error](https://www.statisticshowto.com/probability-and-statistics/statistics-definitions/mean-squared-error/). You can write your own loss functions or rely on those already provided by Flux. Flux works by iteratively reducing the loss through *training*.

> The Flux [`train!`](@ref) function uses *a loss function* and *training data* to improve the *parameters* of your model based on an [`optimiser`](../training/optimisers.md). Here, we use basic gradient descent:

Reviewer 4: We have the `Descent` in there to train readers on our API. Repeating these several times was deliberate, but we used to have a much more terse doc style previously.

Author: Yes, I had it in my PR, but then accepted a suggested change from @ToucheSir . I would be happy to but `Descent` back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Flux [`train!`](@ref) function uses *a loss function* and *training data* to improve the *parameters* of your model based on an [`optimiser`](../training/optimisers.md). Here, we use `Descent`, a basic gradient descent optimizer, to improve our predictions:
```

Reviewer 2: I figured `Descent` was mentioned in the adjacent code block, but if it's being added back in we should take the opportunity to `@ref` it.

>  ([0 1 … 4 5], [2 6 … 18 22])

Author: I agree that it is complex object, but I also think that we don't want to go into too much detail in this first tutorial. I think the reader may just read this as a way to pack the data for use in train!. A lot of the details on dimensions and data structures may be better to present in later tutorial where the example is less contrived with proper dimensions > 1.

```

We now have the loss function, optimiser and data that can be pass on to `train!`. All that remains to complete the specification are the parameters of the model, which `train!` expects to be a particular data structure that Flux sets up using the `params` function:

```
julia> parameters = params(model)

> Params([[-0.99009055], [0.0]])

Author: Not sure about what you mean here, sorry. Can you clarify?

> Params([[-0.99009055], [0.0]])

Reviewer 3: I guess it's not released yet, but in the interests of future-proofing... from Julia 1.7 the printing of arrays should always show their dimensionality, while up to 1.6 one-column matrices and vectors look identical:
```
julia> ones(1), ones(1,1), ones(1,1,1)
([1.0], [1.0;;], [1.0;;;])

julia> VERSION
v"1.7.0-beta3.0"

#

julia> ones(1), ones(1,1), ones(1,1,1)
([1.0], [1.0], [1.0])

julia> VERSION
v"1.6.0"
```

```

These are the parameters Flux will change, one step at a time, to improve predictions. Each of the parameters comes from `model`: 

```
julia> model.weight in parameters, model.bias in parameters
(true, true)
```

> The [`train!`](@ref) function in Flux will use the optimizer to iteratively adjust the weights and biases in `parameters` to minimize the loss function. Calling `train!` once makes the optimizer take a single step toward the minimum of our loss function:

Author: Implemented.

 ([0 1 … 4 5], [2 6 … 18 22])
```

We now have the loss function, optimiser and data that can be pass on to `train!`. All that remains to complete the specification are the parameters of the model, which `train!` expects to be a particular data structure that Flux sets up using the `params` function:

```
julia> parameters = params(model)

> Params([[-0.067352235], [0.0]])

Reviewer 2: Another note about different random values.

Author: See my reply above.

```

> The [`train!`](@ref) function in Flux will use the optimizer to iteratively adjust the weights and biases in `parameters` to minimize the loss function. Calling `train!` once makes the optimizer take a single step toward the minimum: 

Reviewer 2: I would revert most of these changes wholesale. Tweak-wise, you could rename `predict` to `model` as you've done above and drop the lines showing the weight and bias again (the sentences on both sides will need to be joined).

Author: Not sure that I follow what you mean. Can you please clarify?

> The [`train!`](@ref) function in Flux will use the optimizer to iteratively adjust the weights and biases in `parameters` to minimize the loss function. Calling `train!` once makes the optimizer take a single step toward the minimum: 

Reviewer: Following up on [@ToucheSir's comment](https://github.com/FluxML/Flux.jl/pull/1687/files#r681260203), I think these deletions should be reverted. The goal with this tutorial was to be deliberately slow and repetitive. I certainly agree that there is some fine-tuning of the wording that can be done in this section, but a complete deletion is not what we want.

```
julia> train!(loss, parameters, data, opt)
```

We can check that the loss has decreased:

```
julia> loss(x_train, y_train)

> 186.32362365722656

Reviewer 2: Another note about different random values.

Author: See my reply above.

```

> as the parameters were changed by the algorithm:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And the parameters were changed by the optimizer:
```

> And the parameters were changed by the optimizer:

Reviewer: Here I would revert back to the original intent: the reason the loss went down is because the parameters changed. We want to capture that causal relationship.

```
julia> parameters

> Params([[8.389461], [2.4336762]])

Reviewer 2: Another note about different random values.

Author: See my reply above.

julia> predict.weight in parameters, predict.bias in parameters
(true, true)

```

The first parameter is the weight and the second is the bias. Flux will adjust predictions by iteratively changing these parameters according to the optimizer.

This optimiser implements the classic gradient descent strategy. Now improve the parameters of the model with a call to [`train!`](@ref) like this:
The [`train!`](@ref) function in Flux will use the optimizer to iteratively adjust the weights and biases in `parameters` to minimize the loss function. Calling `train!` once makes the optimizer take a single step toward the minimum: 

```
julia> train!(loss, parameters, data, opt)
```

And check the loss:
We can check that the loss has decreased:

```
julia> loss(x_train, y_train)
267.8037f0
186.32362365722656
```

It went down. Why? 
as the parameters were changed by the algorithm:

```
julia> parameters
Params([[9.158408791666668], [2.895045275]])
Params([[8.389461], [2.4336762]])
```

> The parameters have changed. This single step is the essence of machine learning.

Reviewer 2: We could still keep around the second sentence here. I'm not tied to it though.

Author: I would not say that a single gradient descent step is the essence of ML, although I understand the intention.

> ## Iteratively Train the Model

Reviewer 2: Why was this heading removed? I don't see a new heading to replace it.

Author: I don't think it is needed in the new version. The new heading 'Learn Model Parameters by Optimisation' captures this.

Reviewer 2: It is because the next sentence starts with "in the previous section..." :stuck_out_tongue:. My point was that there either needs to be a header breaking that up from the previous paragraph, or the sentence itself needs to be changed. Personally, I think the header captures the following text pretty well and don't see the motivation behind removing it.

       end

julia> loss(x_train, y_train)

> 0.0054461159743368626

Reviewer 2: Another note about different random values.

julia> parameters

> Params([[4.022609], [2.0063674]])

Reviewer 2: Another note about different random values.

Author: See my reply above.

```

After 200 training steps, the loss went down, and the parameters are getting close to those in the function the model is built to predict.

## Evaluate the Predictive Performance of the Model

Now, let's verify the predictions:

```
julia> model(x_test)
1×5 Array{Float64,2}:

>  26.142  30.1646  34.1872  38.2099  42.2325

Reviewer 2: Another note about different random values.

Author: See my reply above.

julia> y_test
1×5 Array{Int64,2}:
 26  30  34  38  42
```

> As expected, the predictions are very accurate since the underlying function was simple and observed without noise. Later on we will see `Flux` in action on substantially more challenging applications.

Reviewer 2: Going to defer to other folks on whether the summary should stick around.

Author: I thought that it was too detailed.

Reviewer: I would keep this summary. It is intentionally overly detailed for absolute beginners.

> In summary, Flux builds and evaluates a predictive model through the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In summary, building and evaluating a predictive model in Flux follows the following steps:
```
I think this reads a bit more accurately. Specifically, Flux itself doesn't do much in the way of evaluation, but rather provides (some) utilities for the user to do so.

> In summary, building and evaluating a predictive model in Flux follows the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to improve our predictions, we trained the model with `Flux.train!` and the `Descent` optimiser. We ran one training step and observed that the parameters changed and the loss went down. Finally, we repeated this training step many times to complete the learning process.

In summary, building and evaluating a predictive model in Flux follows the following steps:
```

1. Setup training and test data.

> 2. Build a predictive model with initialized parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Build a model with initialized parameters.
```
Redundant with the "summary" line above.

> 3. Find better parameters by optimizing a loss function that penalizes poor predictions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Find better parameters by optimizing a loss function.
```
Something about the addition of the last 3 words doesn't sit 100% with me, but hard-pressed to come up with an alternative. Going to appeal to the wisdom of the crowd here.

> 4. Evaluate the learned model by assessing performance on test data.

Reviewer: I would keep this bulleted list.

> 4. Evaluate the learned model by assessing predictive performance on the test data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Evaluate the learned model by assessing performance on test data.
```
Ditto comment about repeating "predictive".

> Let's drill down a bit to understand what's going on inside the individual layers of Flux.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's drill down a bit to understand what's going on inside individual Flux layers.
```
